## week 1 
First week of third year was mostly introductions to new modules. One of the main focuses of this year is the dissertation project, I was assigned doing welfare applications but managed to change the subject to something I was more interested in. For the group game project, we were coming up with some ideas for prototypes, A problem here was the software was not working on our computers making is so that no actual production work could be done. Instead of prototyping mechanics we focused on ideation. For 310 we are doing machine learning using 6502 architecture. This module I am particularly interested in as it provides insight to how programming old video games was done.
## week 2
Week two I mainly focused on prototyping for the group game project, I want to get ahead on this so that I have more time for other projects. The task I was given was to find out how difficult it would be to make a mobile game using unreal engine and to learn the pipeline for doing this project. I asked peers how they had made mobile games in the past and how they would recommend going about it. Using this information and some online tutorials I managed to create an application that ran on mobile. A problem I found here was following the tutorials as I had difficulties with some of the steps. Understanding the software better will make tutorials easier to follow.
## week 3
This week I decided to focus on 310 working on the making a NES game project, I decided that I wanted to finish the live coding video tutorials as quickly as possible so that I would have a head start on the project. I had some difficulty here with the emulator not working when ran on a second monitor. This caused me lots of stress trying to understand why the game was not running and was not a fix that I would normally try. In the group game project, I was helping my fellow programmers with prototyping some experimental features such as limb removal and X-Ray.
## week 4
This week for the group game project we moved out of the prototyping phase and onto pre-production. The features that we had already prototyped we began putting into the main project. Some clashes with the code meant that most my time this week was focused on bug fixing and making it all run together. The NES game project is coming along well, now that tutorials have been finished, I managed to get some base code in for my actual de-make game. For dissertation project this week I missed the project supervision session and was confused on some aspects of what I should be doing so I emailed my project supervisor for clarification.
## week 5
This week I started my javascript portfolio project, for this I decided to make a similar game to the one I was making for 310 NES demake. The reasons being making the game in an easier programming language such javascript should help me when it comes to doing the NES game. For the javascript project we were provided with a framework and some already working code that we could use as a base. I studied this code and was planning on using it initially but found I could not get it working correctly so decided to make my own code from scratch, this approach worked much better for me but probably should have looked more into the framework.
## week 6 
This week was studio practice week. With the javascript portfolio game deadline coming up I spent a lot of my time working on this. I had some difficulties getting the javascript and HTML to work together. I went for the option of having my HTML buttons outside of the canvas, so I could click them at any time during gameplay, I found this to work well for the game I made but understanding the relationship between javascript and HTML would be useful for future projects. The rest of the time this week I spent on the group game project. Our team was having problems with attendance with some members going home but we still managed to get a lot of work done towards the game.
## week 7 
Week 7 I had a couple of presentations to do as well as javascript portfolio game hand in. I made a technical poster for this hand in during the first half of the week, the poster was showing how I could quickly make minigames for the game I made using the framework I created. I was pleased with how in turned out with some UML diagrams showing the process. The other presentation was the Research project work in progress, I was not at all confident with how my research was going and did not like presenting this at all, but the feedback did help me find some new areas of study.
## week 8
This week I had to really crack on with my research project, I had read lots of sources and made notes but had not yet started writing the review properly. With a peer review later in the week I spent many long hours trying to get as many words down as possible, I ended with about 2000 while I was aiming for 4000. I burnt out a bit this week trying to get good words down but was happy with what I managed to achieve even though it was half of my goal writing is not my favourite area. The peer review provided useful feedback on some typos that I had made and areas I should expand on.
## week 9
During 220 we were looking at R programming. Programming in R seems that it can be useful for quickly creating graphs and evaluating data. Looking at data analysis wasn’t the most captivating experience but is clear why it is used. Most of this week I was working on my NES game demake, by this point the game was working as intended but the code needed refactoring for maintainability. I spent a long time refactoring the code but wasn’t sure to what depth I should go and what the best practices were for 6502 development, I feel like I should have studied the best practices to provide a  better idea of how the code should be laid out.
## week 10 
With deadlines approaching I spent the start of the week finalising my NES demake. I managed to get all the features that I wanted into the game and made sure the code was somewhat maintainable. I saw some of my peers using multiple files for their games, but I felt like this was not worth the effort on my own game. This week the Literature review was in, I managed to increase my word count to 3500, while this still was not close to my goal of 6000 words, I felt like it was as much as I could achieve in the time period without lowering the overall quality of the writing.
## week 11
After an intense amount of writing last week I was slightly burnt out so this week I stepped back a bit to recover. I spent most of my time working on the game project primarily helping other programmers and designers with their work. When I wasn’t being asked to help I would work on my own parts of the game using our Trello board to pick out tasks and complete them. During this week we also had to sign PlayStation 4 development kit NDA’s, I am looking forward to seeing how developing for a console is different from developing for PC and the challenge of doing so.
## week 12 
This week we had our deadline for our group game, most of our time we spent going through the code and adding comments increasing the overall maintainability. Overall, I am happy with the progress we have made with this project considering the weight is has on our course. We have had some attendance issues with people not showing up. Our team has been understanding with the fact that our mark for the project is much less than the other courses, so they can’t expect us to put as much work in but even still we have all been pulling our weight adequately.  

## Career goal
My career goal is to work as a computing professional. I would like to work in the computing industry making use of my programming skills and knowledge.

The course is helping me progress towards my career goal by providing insight into programming and workplace practices. Learning how to code in many different programming languages makes me a more desirable candidate for programming jobs, it also increases my overall understanding of general programming practices. During the course I have been learning how to use tools like GitHub and Slack this is a large step towards my future goal as they are essential for most modern day computing professional jobs. A challenge I feel that I will face will be switching from the university environment to a workplace environment.

## Five Challenges
The five main challenges I have faced are:
•	Managing stress levels
•	Prioritising work
•	Understanding best programming practices
•	Setting up playtesting sessions
•	Javascript with HTML

## Five Smart Targets



